Updating CHAOSS WG as per governance structure (#533)
chaoss/community: chaoss-groups/working-groups.md

# CHAOSS Working Groups

CHAOSS has three types of working groups.

> ## 1. Metrics Working Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Metrics Working Groups
```

Metrics working groups are responsible for developing and maintaining metrics definitions and metrics models.

### Active Working Groups

> * [**Common Metric**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common): This working group focuses on defining the metrics that are used by both working groups or are important for community health, but that does not cleanly fit into one of the other existing working groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Common Metrics**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-common): This working group focuses on defining the metrics that are used by multiple working groups or are important for community health, but that do not cleanly fit into one of the other existing metrics working groups.
```

* [**Diversity, Equity & Inclusion**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion): This working group aims to bring together experiences measuring diversity, equity and inclusion in open source projects.

* [**Risk**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-risk): The working group focuses on compliance and risk metrics in Open Source Software.

* [**Metrics-Models**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-metrics-models): This working group develops models that include the integration of multiple CHAOSS metrics in a way that people would consume them in practice.

### Inactive Working Groups

> * [**Evolution**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-evolution): This working group was focused on refining the metrics that inform evolution and to work with open source software implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Evolution**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-evolution): This working group was focused on refining the metrics that inform evolution and to work with open source software implementations. Future evolution metrics will be defined in the Common WG.
```

> * [**Value**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-value): This working group was focused on developing metrics that describe value of open source engagement for individuals and organizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Value**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-value): This working group was focused on developing metrics that describe value of open source engagement for individuals and organizations. Discussions about value are currently happening in the OSPO WG.
```

> ## 2. Context Working Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Context Working Groups
```

Context WGs are groups of people who share similar contexts related to open source project health. Context WGs are responsible for helping put CHAOSS metrics, metrics models, and software into practice in meaningful ways across varied contexts.

> * [**OSPO**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-ospo): The OSPO Metrics working group aims to advance how organizations understand the value that open source projects can provide as well as the value of these programs / initiatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**OSPO**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-ospo): The OSPO Metrics working group aims to advance how organizations understand the value that open source projects can provide as well as the value of these programs / initiatives. This is a joint effort between the CHAOSS project and the TODO Group.
```

* [**Application Ecosystem**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-app-ecosystem): This working group applies CHAOSS metrics in the context of an open-source app ecosystem. The mission of this working group is to build a base set of metrics that is focused on the needs of open source communities that are part of the FOSS app ecosystem.

> * [**OSPO++**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZZg8vGQOgfhK6P6G8GQse6OaN3yb2Z_IQVyINa-0TZs/edit): The OSPO++ working group aims create a set of recommendations for metrics related to university open source software, particularly as they relate to what might be seen as “success” for university leadership, faculty, students, and staff, keeping in mind that these actors may evaluate success differently. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**University**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZZg8vGQOgfhK6P6G8GQse6OaN3yb2Z_IQVyINa-0TZs/edit): The University working group is a joint effort between the CHAOSS project and the OSPO++ community that aims to create a set of recommendations for metrics related to university open source software, particularly as they relate to what might be seen as “success” for university leadership, faculty, students, and staff, keeping in mind that these actors may evaluate success differently. 
```

@germonprez @ElizabethN - we're a bit inconsistent in the naming of this WG between the doc and Slack - does this proposed change seem like the right approach?

> * [**Science**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-science): The Science working group aims create a set of recommendations for metrics and models related to scientific open source community. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Science**](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-science): The Science working group aims create a set of recommendations for metrics and models related to scientific open source communities. 
```

> ## 3. Operations Working Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Operations Working Groups
```

> The Operations Working Groups are supporting the metrics discussions and are responsible for various activities and operations for the CHAOSS project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Operations Working Groups are supporting the metrics discussions and are responsible for various activities and operations for the CHAOSS project. In the past, many of these efforts were called Initiatives.
```

> * [**Communications**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_2hErJemNCLgIBaOW0ODIdwfbgBqTfw25aJ7E1ijzWc/edit): The Communications working group focuses on defining the communication policy for CHAOSS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Communications**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_2hErJemNCLgIBaOW0ODIdwfbgBqTfw25aJ7E1ijzWc/edit): The Communications (or Comms) working group focuses on creating outward facing communication and promoting CHAOSS engagement (new contributors, sponsors, metrics users, and CHAOSS software users) to amplify the work being done throughout the CHAOSS community by its contributors. 
```

> * [**CHAOSScon**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HvKPfJwoZm4nW2bBVbDfN8HyFXyXsJlN9g16UhR6l-A/edit): The CHAOSScon working group focuses on planning and executing CHAOSS conferences . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**CHAOSScon**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HvKPfJwoZm4nW2bBVbDfN8HyFXyXsJlN9g16UhR6l-A/edit): The CHAOSScon working group focuses on planning and executing CHAOSS conferences.
```

> * [**CHAOSScast**](https://podcast.chaoss.community/about): The CHAOSScast working group focuses on managing CHAOSS podcast. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**CHAOSScast**](https://podcast.chaoss.community/about): The CHAOSScast working group focuses on managing the CHAOSS podcast.
```

> * [**DEI Badging**](https://github.com/badging/): The DEI Badging working group focuses on badging initiative that is meant to encourage open source projects and event organizers to obtain our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion badges for the purposes of leadership self-reflection and self-improvement around the ways that they are centering DEI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**DEI Badging**](https://github.com/badging/): The DEI Badging working group focuses on our badging initiative that is meant to encourage open source projects and event organizers to obtain our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion badges for the purposes of leadership self-reflection and self-improvement around the ways that they are centering DEI. 
```
